Indian Economy

Pradeesh:

I am Pradeesh and I am going to speak on Indian Economy. The economy of India
is a middle income developing mixed economy. It is the world's sixth-largest
economy by nominal GDP and the third-largest by purchasing power parity (PPP).
According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), on a per capita income basis,
India ranked 145th by GDP (nominal) and 122th by GDP (PPP). From
independence in 1947 until 1991, successive governments promoted protectionist
economic policies, with extensive state intervention and economic regulation.

Akash:

I am Akash and I would like to introduce a few topics related to the economy
namely GNP, GDP, NNP, NDP and PCI which plays a major role. Firstly, Gross
National Product (GNP) is the total value of goods and services produced and
income received in a year by domestic residents of a country. Secondly, Gross
Domestic Product is the total value of goods and services produced by factors of
production within geographical boundaries of country. Next, Net National Product
is the value of depreciation from Gross National Product. Next, Net Domestic
Product (NDP) is obtained from Gross Domestic Product by deducting the
depreciation. Lastly, Per Capita Income (PCI) is the living standard of People. It is
obtained by National Income divided by Population of Country.

Anbuselvan:

I am Anbuselvan and I’m going to speak about its history. In 1991, India began to
loosen its economic restrictions and an increased level of liberalizations led to
growth in the country's private sector. Today, India is considered a mixed
economy: private and public sector coexist and the country leverages
international trade. There are few conditions Boost consumption demand Boost
investment demand, Private sector is constrained at present, Govt needs to play
critical role in boosting investment and States also need to increase investments.Kathir:

I am Kathir and I’m going to speak about current situation of Indian Economy.
India’s merchandise exports between April 2021 and August 2021 were estimated
at US$ 164.10 billion (a 67.33% YoY increase). Merchandise imports between April
2021 and August 2021 were estimated at US$ 219.63 billion (an 80.89% YoY
growth). In August 2021, the Manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) in
India stood at 52.3. The gross GST (Goods and Services Tax) revenue collection
stood at Rs. 112,020 crore (US$ 15.21 billion) in August 2021.

Jestus:

I am Jestus and I’m going to speak about the factors affecting the Indian Economy.
Corruption has been a pervasive problem in India. A 2005 study by Transparency
International (TI) found that more than half of those surveyed had first-hand
experience of paying a bribe or peddling influence to get a job done in a public
office in the previous year. A follow-up study in 2008 found this rate to be 40
percent. In 2011, TI ranked India at 95th place amongst 183 countries in perceived
levels of public sector corruption.

Prasanna:

I am Prasanna and I’m going to speak about the advantages of having good
economy. The cost of living is lower than in the United States. India has many well-
educated technology workers. English is one of India's official subsidiary
languages. India's 1.3 billion people come from a wide range of economic and
cultural backgrounds. The advantages of a market economy include increased
efficiency, productivity, and innovation. In a truly free market, all resources are
owned by individuals, and the decisions about how to allocate such resources are
made by those individuals rather than governing bodies.Senthamizh:

I am Senthamizh and I am going to speak of recent growth of India. India is one of
the most unequal countries in the world, with rising poverty and yet an affluent
elite, the report states. ... "For a long time, it has been said that the richer the
richer part of the country, the better for the rest," he says. India is the world's
fourth-largest economy. It produced $9.4 trillion in goods and services in 2017. 1
But it has a long way to go to beat the top three: China, with a production worth
$23.2 trillion, the European Union with $20.9 trillion, and the United States with
$19.4 trillion.

Karthick Raja:

I am Karthick Raja anThe Indian economy has seen major growth in the last few
decades. The credit for this boom largely goes to the service sector. Agriculture
and associated activities have also been improvised to match global standards and
the export of various food products has seen an upward trend thereby adding to
economic growth.